So moving on to cloudfront.
This is a Web service that distributes content with low latency and high data transfer speeds.
So it's about dynamic static streaming and interactive content.
It's a global service.
It allows ingress so uploading of objects and egress to distribute content.
When you set up cloudfront you can use a zone Apex DNS name. Platform also supports wildcards CNAMEs
wildcard SSL certificates dedicated IP custom SSL and SNO which is server name indication. So the edge
locations and regional edge caches make up part of the AWS global infrastructure.
The Edge location is the location where the content is actually cached requests are routed automatically
to the nearest edge location.
They're not tied to availability zones or regions that separate a regional edge cache is located between
the origin so where the data is coming from originally and the global edge locations and actually has
a large cache bandwidth.
So there's more space available to cache objects.
This allows you to have your objects available for a longer period of time in the cache in a regional
edge cache vs. an edge location.
They aim to get more content closer to users.
So this is what it looks like just to help you remember this you've got your origins that's where your
data is stored can S3.
Could be EC2.
And then you have your regional edge caches.
So these are the ones with the slightly bigger cache bandwidth.
And then you have the edge locations.
Now there's more edge locations than regional edge caches and they're kind of closer to users but they're
a bit smaller in terms of the amount of data you can store on them.
So in this case users then can connect to a cached objects in an actual location.
If it's not there they'll go to a regional edge cache and if it's not there it gets pulled down from
the origin.
So the origin is the source of the files that the content delivery network distributes can be an S3 bucket
EC2 instance a load balancer or Route 53 or also something external so non AWS custom
origin server as a HTTP server which can be an EC2 instance or an on premise non AWS based
web server. So EC2 instances are considered to be a custom origin as well as static websites when
it's S3.
There are two types of distribution.
You've got the Web distribution that has static and dynamic content including multiple file types and
the files are distributed over HTTP and HTTPS and you can add update orderly objects and submit
data from a web form.
You can also use those for live streaming to stream an event in real time.
You then have the RTMP distribution.
This is for streaming media files using a baby flash media servers RTMP protocol.
This is one that allows users to begin playing a media file before the file is finished downloading
files.
In this case must be stored in S3 so with cloudfront you can restrict access to the content using sign
cookies or signed your URLs or by restricting access to the objects in the S3 bucket.
There's also a special type of user called The Origin access identity (OAI) and that can be used to restrict
access to content in an S3 bucket.
If you use an OAI you can restrict users so they cannot access the content directly using the
S3 url.
They have to connect to cloudfront. Definitely an exam question watch out for this one.
So if you have an S3 bucket you can use OAI to make sure that no one can circumvent cloudfront
and go directly to the S3 bucket but you can't do it with an EC2 Origin.
It has to be an S3 bucket.
With cloudfront you pay for data transfer out to the Internet and the origin and the number of requests
and also invalidation requests.
And if you have dedicated IP custom SSL or field level encryption requests what you don't pay for is
data transfer between the region and cloudfront or the regional edge cache and the AWS ACM SSL/
TLS certificates.
You also don't pay for shared cloudfront certificates.